[Music]
she won most talkative in high school
and she has been running her mouth ever
since welcome to the Lisa Fisher said
podcast with your host Lisa Fisher
okay it is a Power Hour of uh a think
tank here and because we have the
premier thinker in the world of cancer
Dr Thomas Seyfried and this is so
exciting for Logan and I to be here
um Dr seifri just knowing what you've
done with the research and the metabolic
approach and how you came to the
Forefront of our knowledge probably
about 10 years ago first defined to us
what the metabolic mitochondrial
approach is to cancer and why did you
pick that is a path for research
oh thank you very much Lisa
um well it's kind of a circuitous path
it wasn't like I woke up one day and say
okay
um let's resolve cancer using metabolic
therapy
um it it came uh through a large amount
of work that I had done on brain
biochemistry
um glycolipid biochemistry and then
having been a major participant in the
American Society for epilepsy for many
many years and knowing
mapping genes for epilepsy and then
realizing that ketogenic diets are a
major tool for managing epileptic
seizures
um but realizing that calorie
restriction water only fasting and these
things could also manage seizures
uh but we were also having parallel
studies on cancer brain cancer
biochemistry basically uh but then when
we started to realize that some of the
same therapies we were using to manage
epileptic seizures could also be
effective for managing brain cancer I
began to dig deeper into the mechanisms
by which that might happen everything
would bring you back then to the work of
Otto Warburg the famous scientists from
the 1920s who clearly showed without any
doubt that all cancers are defective in
their ability to use oxygen for energy
and then uh become dependent on Ancient
fermentation Pathways using glucose as
what he said we have absolutely
validated that and we have found in no
uncertain terms that the other fuel that
he did not know about is glutamine but
the glutamine is also fermented just
like the glucose is but it's through a
different pathways through the
glutamanolysis pathway most folks in the
field today know about glutamine and as
dry as a driver of cancer but they all
believe it's it's respired use oxygen is
used to get the energy out of glutamate
uh wrong we we showed that it was
fermented so that's the big thing the
big thing is that Otto Warburg was
correct he just did not have all of the
facts that he needed to uh bring this
whole new paradigm forward so he was
lost in battles with others about oxygen
consumption and cancer cells that don't
need glucose and and he wasn't aware of
the glutamine fermentation so once you
once you realize all of the issues that
led to the big controversy
um then you start clearing it all out
and then the field ran off uh the whole
cancer field ran off like Lemmings over
the cliff uh chasing genes uh where is
where we are today uh the entire can
cancer world thinks that all these
immunotherapies and all these Precision
medicines and all this nonsense this is
this is the way they think it is but
it's not that and uh it's a metabolic
disease and most of what you see
advertised on television and all these
things uh they're all based on the
somatic mutation Theory uh which
replaced out a warburg's view that
cancer was a metabolic disease we have
now re re right at the ship and say no
Warburg was right cancer is a metabolic
disease driven by two fermentable fuels
glucose and glutamine and not able to
use Ketone bodies or fatty acids for
energy very simple once you understand
that now you have a path for a non-toxic
management of the majority of cancers
the big problem is that it's I might as
well be talking to plug sockets because
it's it's it's uh it's like deer in the
head like oh it's like oh I don't know
what to say it's like beyond my
comprehension so so uh but it'll take
time because I think people want to live
and if they have cancer they want to
know how to manage it without having
their hair fall out their gums bleed and
uh and do all these crazy things that we
do to cancer patients uh not to say that
we will never we don't want to use these
things it's just that you really have to
know how to use them the correct way
um I'm not saying we don't use radiation
or chemo or any of this other stuff I'm
just saying the way we're using it today
is inappropriate and and and not and not
in the best way so uh we can we can
change this whole thing and make it a
hell of a lot easier for most people
Logan is a parent of somebody who has
heard the diagnosis the dreaded words
that your son who was four years old was
he was he Landers for
the time he was diagnosed five when he
had stage four William Sumer
um and I know you went through Logan you
probably didn't have a lot of choices
there for your son at the time now that
you know you're three or four years out
from that cancer diagnosis and the
treatment what would you like to ask Dr
Seyfried at this point in managing
forward
I think the main thing is just
somehow we got to get it to click I
remember going in there early on what
can I do well because I did not accept
that as a parent I I had no control over
the situation and you know Point Blank
now I got to be very careful I because
uh you know Children's Hospital has been
great to us and and we are where we are
for what happened actually I I really
kind of
uh
relentlessly Dove down everything I
possibly could and your work actually
came up very early on along with you
know Simon Cheney ravichi uh Gonzalez
and so everything that I possibly could
to figure out what's going on and that
metabolic aspect came up pretty early on
when I came across insulin potentiated
chemotherapy
so that that really made once I I really
dove into your work it made a lot of
sense but even though I was I was
reading it and I was trying to grasp it
and apply it there was no comprehension
of that from the oncology department it
was you know eat whatever you want it
doesn't matter they give sugar to every
kid so you know Lander went from stage
four to cancer-free in eight months
right like we did conventional we did
have surgery chemo and then a few rounds
of radiation but there's a lot of other
babies that did not even remotely have
the same progression that he did and so
I harshly am working to help get your
message out because I think that that is
the core fundamental thing along with
adjunctive therapies but
I'm at a loss too because I get asked a
lot what should I do what could I do and
then it's just like
that's where it stops because the
oncologist says well that doesn't matter
there's no proof right yeah yeah how do
you talk how do we approach that or
approach the subject Dr C freed with
conventional uh oncologist about using
either a hybrid approach which I've
heard you talk about with Dr Hyman and
Max lugavir or actually just saying
let's throw caution of the wind and stop
feeding the cancer with sugar yeah you
know it's such a you know at least I I
don't know I I'm at a loss
um because I I have friends that are
oncologists and um they tell me they
never heard uh that Sugar uh is a fuel
for cancer
um if you go to their clinics they say
uh in fact at the Mayo Clinic some one
of the uh glioblastoma individuals who
contacted me for information went to
Mayo Clinic and the oncologist there
said sugar has nothing to do with brain
cancer and and I have we published a
paper in 2003 showing a direct uh
correlation between how high blood sugar
is and how fast a brain tumor in a mouse
would grow and since I published that
paper dozens of others have come out in
the brain cancer field and in other
fields lung cancer breast cancer all
these cancer showing a clear absolutely
strikingly clear connection between the
level of sugar in your blood and how
fast your tumor is going to grow and
this goes back to what Otto werberg said
if there if the can the sugar is there
to drive energy without oxygen it's a
fuel for fermentation see we're doing
all the science behind this and knowing
and knowing uh how you kill tumor cells
they can't so you have to say what do
they need to grow they they ferment what
does that mean they get energy without
oxygen oh okay what are the fuels that
drive energy without oxygen and the fuel
is glucose and glutamine and and it
becomes very clear we did all we're
doing it as we speak the rigorous
experiments we can't find any cancer
cell that can live for very long without
those two fuels now the the key is you
have to transition the body over to
ketones uh because the tumor cell can't
use ketones so what we do is we take to
bring the whole body into a state of
therapeutic or nutritional ketosis once
that that allows you to push blood
sugars down really really low because
your body brain doesn't need glucose if
it has ketones so that's what we first
step is bring your body into nutritional
ketosis the tumor cells don't die from
that but they they don't grow very fast
they become much more indolent then once
your body is transition it's like
putting a protective shield on all your
different on all your normal cells and
then you go in and you and you take and
you and you target the further glucose
and glutamine with repurposed drug
and you start you start blasting away at
this tumor gradually and it starts to up
and die and not only that your body uh
the cells that used to be getting
glucose as their normal fuel are now
knowing that the body is is lowering the
blood sugar and their their uh response
to sugar is much greater so the normal
cells of your body start to have a
direct uh um a challenge to the tumor
cells they're making a direct
competition for the first time so your
tumor cells with high glucose your
normal cells are just hanging around
when you lower the blood sugar the
normal cells now put direct pressure on
the tumor cells and then you hit those
tumor cells with some drugs that block
their glutamine and you gradually
degrade this tumor without the toxicity
um we did all that we're publishing this
as a matter of fact we just put out a
paper in bioarchives but pediatric
glioma which is the number one killer of
little kids a pediatric glioma is the
number one uh reason for death from
children with cancer we showed that
ketogenic metabolic therapy used with
the parasite drug and bendazole together
with diministat now the ministat is a
very interesting drug it was used in the
clinics for pancreatic cancer and it was
a bust it didn't work
um so they you know the trials showed no
no therapeutic benefit we tested it on
our on our pre-clinical pediatric glioma
model and just like for pancreatic
cancer in adult humans it didn't work
but when we put it together with the
restricted diet together with that
unbelievable you this thing is like a uh
all of us we have a lot of drugs out
there that would take on new and greater
power at lower doses uh when when
administered when the body is in
nutritional ketosis so all of a sudden
you open up your tool chest and you have
a wealth of things that you could be
using that work really really well it's
just that the field thinks cancer is a
genetic disease it's not it's not a
genetic disease so you have to change
the theory under which people view the
disease so if you go to the National
Cancer Institute of the United States it
says on their web page cancer is a
genetic disease they're not even
mentioning this I met about Alex stuff
they said oh yeah we understand
metabolism but it's Gene driven uh wrong
we did the nuclear transfer experiment
show these genes are largely irrelevant
so um and yet we're spending billions of
dollars uh focusing on Precision
medicines uh that will not only uh have
the potential to manage the cancer but
also cause hyperprogressive disease and
kill you before the cancer does so um
and you hear about these on TV pdl1 as a
matter of fact they talk more about the
way the drug is going to kill you than
than the way it's going to help you and
the population of people are just
sitting there I mean what are they uh uh
you know I'm saying to myself this is
nuts you know we have people dying every
day we have 1600 people day dying from
cancer in the United States and a lot of
these deaths are horrific I mean we're
using medieval kinds of treatments and
making it sound like it's state of the
art and it's medieval stuff and it's not
based on the wrong concept of what the
disease is so when Logan is talking
about his son's
um you know there are so many more
things if the cancer were ever to recur
or any of these things would happen I
mean we have we have drugs now the
problem is the Food and Drug
Administration doesn't uh permit these
drugs to be available or they're not
they're not either known or recognized
so um I'm not sure what how we how we uh
approach that problem preach that
problem I I don't know all I can say is
we I have a clear understanding of what
cancer is I have a clear scientific uh
background to know this and I have uh
many many people that are using
metabolic therapies that are doing
really well is it is it a Panacea frungi
I mean you have to you have to it's a
strategy you have to treat the patient
up front with metabolic therapy
gradually and then we can bring in
radiation and and these other kinds of
drugs towards the end of the treatment
when cancer cells are just hanging on
every week you might hit him with a
little CIS platin you might hit him with
a little lumustein or one of these kinds
of things but the way we're doing it is
all backwards today and it's based on
the wrong Theory and consequently you
have 1600 people a day dying from this
disease but it doesn't have to be Dr
safer and horrific dance one thing that
is extremely evident in the alternative
world that I am very much a part of is
there is a whole lot of self-care going
on a whole lot of self-treatment and
things that are being applied and
they're working uh you know you had
mentioned uh fembendazole a couple times
like there's a whole community of people
uh online it scares me because there's a
lot of bad advice out there and extremes
right and and that that's the downside
but I don't know that we are going to be
able to change the medical system just
because it is what it is it's a big big
ship it's hard to turn right
what I have found and I'm very curious
to know if you have any experience with
is it seems like the high-dose melatonin
is gaining in popularity the exogenous
ketones is gaining methylene blue all of
these things are being used right or
wrong I'm just asking if that is
something that you have seen as some
sort of an adjunctive to the ketogenic
diet because we can't we can't get a lot
of those drugs I can't go get the the
glutamine Inhibitors
um and I can't find anything natural
outside of potentially berberine that
does uh what what we're talking about so
do you have you have any experience with
yeah well I don't I don't like to speak
about things that I haven't tested in in
our pre-clinical systems
um I know about the methylene blue very
very clearly I mean I haven't tested it
uh I I like to see we have developed
here at Boston College the single best
animal models for stem cell tumors
metastatic tumors and these kinds of
things they have the Matched biology of
what of what The Human Condition would
have
so I like to uh speak only after I've
tested in our system uh what what this
this might might do I because I I also
uh like to know what the molecular
mechanism of action is of of
of some of these things I can't I can't
speak to melatonin
um because here's the situation
um we know that there are only two fuels
that these tumor cells can can use so if
melatonin or any of these things have an
effect you have to show that in some way
they're targeting the the glycolysis and
the glutamanolysis pathways because that
could explain uh their mechanism of
action and as a matter of fact some of
the drugs that we use that people have
used uh that have had some uh
therapeutic benefit when you start to
look at what those drugs do you end up
seeing that in one way or another
they're targeting the glycolysis or
glutamanolysis Pathways Pathways
unbeknownst to the person that was using
it so in order to gain credibility of
any kind of alternative uh approach it
would always be good to have a powerful
pre-clinical data to show that and the
cancers have to be done in natural
cancers uh like uh not these genetically
engineered things that we that a lot of
people use they use genetically
engineered cancer cells in a genetically
engineered Mouse you know and they
published big papers in science and all
these top journals on things that are
artificially created under artificial
conditions you need to take you need to
take the natural we have natural uh
cancers in the in the mouse and also the
Dogma the dog we published a major paper
on mast cell cancer in the dog uh using
metabolic therapy you know same thing as
humans so the dog has to have radiation
chemo and it's going to be very sick and
it probably won't live that I mean if
you look at our paper that we published
on mast cell tumor using a calorie
restricted keto without any drugs was
shocking and and almost like your son I
mean this this cancer just completely
dissolved so uh um and I think we're
just at the at the beginning of knowing
how to do diet drug combos uh that will
manage these Cancers and possibly
eliminate them I don't like to say don't
ever say anything that I say we cure
cancer all I'm saying is we have a new
path for managing the disease more
effectively than the current path we're
on whether it leads to the cures of
people that might be great but we don't
know but all I know is if someone is
diagnosed with a stage four cancer and
says you know you have six or eight
months or a year to live and that person
is alive with a good state of health 10
years out then you know maybe 11 years
they die of cancer I don't know but they
live a hell of a lot longer than they
were predicted to live and I think we're
just beginning scratching the surface
because it's like anything we now know
what the the weakest point we now know
the Achilles heel of these cancer cells
we now we now know precisely what they
need to survive and we now know how to
Target those survival without energy
nothing can grow period it's all comes
down to energy what's driving
dysregulated growth in the cancer cell
it's fermentation how do you know that
because the cells can grow without
oxygen there's only two main fuels that
can do that glucose and glutamine and
there's not a single Clinic anywhere on
the planet as we speak right now that is
targeting glucose and glutamine in the
patient's transition to nutritional
ketosis so there you there you go right
there well it
so if we know that cancer has a sweet
tooth with those I think we can all
agree we know how to approach glucose
but I still don't know what glutamine is
and I kind of thought I needed it but I
guess I don't no no no no glutamine is
but one of the most essential amino
acids in our body this is why you have
to know what to do so our gut needs
glutamine our immune system needs
glutamine right okay okay urea cycle
needs glutamine glutamine is an
unbelievably important amino acid in our
body it's amino acid all right it's one
of the 20 amino acids that circulate
they consider an a non-essential amino
acid because we can make glutamine from
glucose okay normal body can make right
however it's an essential absolutely
essential amino acid for a cancer cell
but it's not so essential for the rest
of the body now you can't go in and
there's no diet that we know of except
my late great friend George Cahill who
was the president of the Joslin Diabetes
Center down here in Boston uh after 21
14 to 21 day water only fasting blood
glutamine does go down but we like to
use drugs
um uh and the drug would be used only
after the body would be in nutritional
ketosis uh and you do it sparingly we
call it pressed pulse therapy that I we
developed with some of my colleagues Dom
D'Agostino and Joe maroon at Pittsburgh
um we put this together and once you
have to what we call pulsing means you
use a short amount of it at a certain
time when the body is in a press State
on glucose so again it's you gotta you
have to know how to work with the tools
you have to maximize the therapeutic
efficacy of what you're doing and this
is where some knowledge comes in and
this is where we are at The Cutting Edge
is dosage timing and scheduling what is
the best drug what timing and scheduling
to work uh with the glucose press so um
and we call this unsexy science because
it's um oh people don't get it you know
but but the idea is is it's going to
take care of your cancer in a better way
than what's presently being done whether
it's sexy or not to the guy who's
getting benefit from this he's probably
elated but the guys that are working in
a lot of the research Labs oh it is not
really too exciting to us but you know
but our goal is to keep people alive and
equal in a healthier State and I
consider that far more sexy or or
wanting to do this than than uh some of
the they always say what's the molecular
mechanism of this you know let's kill
all the cancer cells first keep the
patient healthy then we'll go back and
figure out you know yeah uh what's going
on but let's not allow all these poor
folks to be dying miserably in these
treatment centers while we try to figure
out the molecular minutia by by which uh
some of this stuff works out we have I
have a general idea how it's working and
uh uh that's all I need to know to go
after these things and uh let's let's
let's let's let's go that way I can
always go back and let somebody else do
that I I let's
I've seen your uh now I've seen this
quote attributed to you of course I've
never heard you say it but I think Ben
Azadi has quoted it and Logan I think
we've discussed it that you said after a
seven day water fast that cancer cells
your cancer load drops by like 95 or
whatever that is can can you back that
up is there a statement you said that's
similar to that yeah well I I don't I
don't I can't say for seven days
um I've seen like guy Tanenbaum with his
uh a metastatic prostate cancer he did a
series of of uh 20-day water only
fasting
um and he was able to largely resolve
the cancer I've had people tell me these
really long fasts uh uh 20 days now
people think and you know when I when I
started doing all this we knew this
because we were doing it in in Mouse
studies and we know how to make the con
the the the conversions from Human to
mice based on basil basal metabolic rate
differences between species but it
became clear to us that a 40 calorie
restriction in a mouse is like water
only fasting in the human and then I
said wow what about water only fasting
there's a lot of reports uh where long
fasts uh just the cancer cells really
suffer uh when you when you when you
begin to do that as I said the body I
even wrote it in my book it's called
Auto Linux autolytic cannibalism
and the body turns on the tumor cells
and uses the tumor cells as food
um so when your body when you're when
your body starts to be under an extreme
uh calorie restriction fasting every
cell in the body must carry its own
weight uh energetically anything that's
unfit weak lame is eliminated okay
there's a tremendous house cleaning
process that goes on in our bodies right
and you have a bunch of tumor cells that
are unfit containing mutations and and
all these things they're not carrying
their weight so what happens is our
immune system attacks them dissolves the
material from the tumor and distributes
it to the good cells in the body it's
called autolytic cannibalism and it's a
it's linked to the concept of autophagy
which is a well-known biological
phenomenon so but you know a lot of
people say well I'm not going to fast
for that long I'm going to die so that's
why we came up with
um the concept of press pulse
therapeutic strategy where it's a
combination of these together other to
make it less difficult for the cancer
patient and like you said Logan it's
very important when you do metabolic
therapy you now have control or you are
now a the patient and the family are
participating directly in the management
of your of your condition you are no
longer a simple bystander in this
process so the family and the patient
are all working together as a unit a
family Unit A team they know that in
order to manage this cancer we may have
to change a little bit of our lifestyles
in order to uh manage this so clearly a
lot more of the of the burden of
treatment does fall on the patient when
they do metabolic therapy but from my
discussions with large numbers of people
they feel empowered to know that they
are actually participating in the
recovery of their health the other thing
we find is that as in our press pulse
therapy we when patients enter the
clinic with cancer diagnosis
oftentimes not always but oftentimes
they have many other or several other
maladies like high blood pressure
hypertension type 2 diabetes obesity
they have a number of different uh
comorbidities oh by size they have some
form of cancer one of the remarkable
things about metabolic therapy is not
only do you slowly degrade the tumor but
you often find that you have a recovery
of diabetes hypertension blood pressure
you actually become you enter you exit
the metabolic program super healthy
besides that besides the fact that your
tumor is gone but um uh or Don or at
least managed we we have Pablo Kelly and
Devin England he came to me in 19 2014
and with a glioblastoma and he they gave
him nine months to live without any
conventional treatment and and um he
took no radiation no chemo no steroids
he's still alive today nine years out
but his tumor is still there okay so did
you did metabolic therapy cure Pablo no
did metabolic therapy allow Pablo to
live far far longer than he should have
yes so I mean this is the thing we don't
know if we cure anybody but we certainly
allow people to live a hell of a lot
longer just like Maggie Jones and these
others maybe Logan's son uh uh the the
idea here is that you're you're you're
allowing people to survive far longer
than would have been expected using
standard of care alone
Logan I know you have a million
questions so I'll let you jump in Lisa
you have no idea or maybe you do
early on I read The China Study okay and
it scared me to death and to where I
completely you know took out meat but I
continued diving into it to understand
and so I am very curious as far as your
take on meat and because I've even gone
from the extreme of what I believed was
accurate with The China Study to
participating in carnivore very
regularly and so yeah does meat cause
cancer and what is your take on on you
know a meat heavy diet
you know meat does not cause cancer as a
matter of fact sugar does not cause
cancer
um what causes cancer is this
dysfunctional uh respiration in a Cell
then you have to say what causes this
dysfunctional respiration in a cell and
and that could be carcinogens
irradiation uh stress constant chronic
stress intermittent hypoxia chronic
inflammation you can go down the list
any of these things uh uh could be
what's provocative to damaging oxidative
phosphorylation in a particular
population of cells in a particular
organ so uh when it comes to diet some
people say oh I did a strict vegan diet
and my cancer was managed or I did a
complete carnivore diet my cancer was
managed so people say well what should I
eat should I eat vegetables so that's
why we developed the glucose Ketone
index calculator what it does is it
allows all we know is that we lower
blood sugar and Elevate ketones and if
you can get into a gki ratio of 2.0 or
below
um it doesn't make any difference what
you're eating if you can do that with a
plant diet that's wonderful if you can
do that with a meat diet that's great if
you can do it with a fish diet a
Mediterranean diet I don't care I always
ask the patient what's your gki and and
people will say well I've been on these
plants for a long time and I can't get
below 10. well I said maybe you should
try something else
um you know you know you're going to
shoot for these numbers so uh do it
until you can get to the number once
you're in the 2.0 or below glucose
Ketone index now you take the drugs and
you go after the cancer with these drugs
that'll blast that will blast them apart
so again this is a this is I can't tell
you how many people have emailed me and
call me and saying you know I can't I
can't get down I said we'll try doing
water only fasting that'll bring you
down
so uh so uh and then they'll say and
once you do that then you know what you
can eat not eat to maintain that this is
the way we did it with the kids with
apple okay you know once we once we
found a a kid with epilepsy we'd keep
his blood sugar really really stable and
then he and then he he wouldn't seize
but it was the shifts in blood sugar now
with Kate with epilepsy you could see an
immediate effect of falling out of the
Zone because the kid would would have a
seizure which was obvious to everybody
around and uh but with cancer you can't
see a group of cancer cells growing uh
like you can see an epileptic seizure so
uh but you know that if you're in a
steady low gki like my good friend
Dominic D'Agostino he's he's always in
in a we evolved it we're actually a
species that evolved to be in ketosis
all the time and and traditional uh
people in in uh who who uh are
Aboriginal folks that live in different
parts of the world that follow their
traditional diets and lifestyle cancer
is rare it's almost non-existent in some
of these folks because they're they're
they're living the way we evolved as a
species
now what steps do you think people ought
to take should children even in
incorporate fasting well I think you
would get us to ketosis yeah well we we
learned an awful lot about that with
ketogenic diets for the kids without
because most of the children they're
mostly children and they're little you
know okay a year or two old they can be
up to you know uh very infants you know
Toddlers and this kind
um but you have to be very careful again
uh many of the folks that know a lot
about this are in the epilepsy field uh
because they're working and this is
another crazy thing
um I know from my discussions with Folks
at Johns Hopkins that you could be the
Pediatric epilepsy Clinic is here and
down the hall is the pediatric oncology
uh uh section and there's absolutely no
discussion between the groups
um you know what they should be doing in
the oncology is what they're doing in
the epilepsy except using metabolic
therapy like we said for these little
kids with brain tumors
and uh they're not doing it at all and
uh but you have to know as the child
develops you have to have a metabolic
approach that's going to allow the body
to develop normally
and uh this is why you have to be very
careful and and mothers and parents of
children with epilepsy are well aware of
this so they're always in that zone of
keeping the can the seizures under
control but not allowing the child to
fall into a developmental malady of some
sort okay again dietitian nutritionists
that understand that are essential but
they also have to understand why the
cancer this so again I'm flipping
between epilepsy and cancer uh mainly
because as I have a lot of experience in
those areas and uh again it all comes
down to diet nutrition and knowing how
drugs work with that new metabolic State
and this is the this is the beginning of
of the new of the new paradigm so uh
there's gonna in oncology it's going to
have to be a team of folks it's going to
have to be the person that administers
the drugs at the right time and the
right dosages and consultation with
dietitians so that they know that this
is the those that's going to make that
drug work the best while not
compromising the development of the
child if it's a child or keeping keeping
an adult in in metabolic homeostasis so
again it's it's learning an awful lot
using the tools that we have and uh this
I think is going to make a huge
difference on the outcome uh and
eventual management of cancer
okay Logan go ahead I know you're you're
thirsty yeah I gotta ask a question I
just go back I don't like just hammering
on problems problems problems right and
so like the lack of being in control is
something I've never accepted like there
is something I can do so what what I
have found with your approach that I
agree with wholeheartedly is it goes
against the grain of the medical system
we can't do anything about that what we
can do is this self-care approach and so
I I guess I'm going back to the
there's got to be some more adjunctive
things that we can do uh along the lines
I just
whether you know Travis christopherson's
work I mean he's he's right up there
with you in my book on on getting that
information out to where it can be
applied to to us
um are you familiar with a relatively
new development with melatonin in that
the vast majority of it is produced by
the mitochondria and as as a
detoxification and if so can you explain
that to me
no I can't I haven't studied it I've
heard about it but I I
you know it's one of those things where
uh people talk a lot about it uh I
haven't tested it uh uh and I I don't I
I can't I can't really speak to that at
all
um I I'm sorry you know I I need to do
it and I keep
okay so that is because it was something
we can do right like yeah
to do to do these experiments people
people have to realize number one
they're very expensive and number two
they're extremely labor intensive
um uh pre-clinical studies are not cheap
um and we've been doing pre-clinical
studies since I I came to Boston College
here 35 years ago from Yale University
um and uh you know and uh Travis
christopherson's foundation for cancer
metabolic therapies is a big supporter
of our research the more money that is
donated to Travis the more of these
kinds of experiments I can do
um I mean I could certainly if someone
were to give Travis a hundred thousand
dollars to do a melatonin experiment I
could do a melatonin experiment in on
brain cancer and various cancers to let
people know uh knowing certain terms uh
whether or not we have a therapeutic
benefit but I'm not going to uh uh
speculate on on whether melatonin is
going to be as powerful as UH 60 oxine
or leucine which is Dawn or ambendazole
because those guys are powerful could
melatonin work synergistically with
these that might be possible because we
are building diet drug cocktails and
that's another thing that uh when you
Logan when you mentioned the the the the
field itself we we are limited uh by the
so-called clinical trial Paradigm itself
where you have one drug uh and a placebo
and then you double you can't do that
with with metabolic therapy metabolic
therapy or diet and drugs uh and you
have to know the individual's ability to
handle
different food sources then you make a
decision about how you're going to
stratify that individual this hold has
to change this whole thing has to change
so how you evaluate evaluate this and
you know I know the resistance from the
oncology departments and medical schools
but you have to realize the cancer
patient is the consumer
um you know there's two things here you
don't want to see people running off and
doing witchcraft and and doing snake oil
stuff that has no scientific
validity and you also feel bad that the
guys that you should be helping you work
through this are are blind to it so um
so that's the problem and I I think it
has to work together okay at some point
we're going to have to retrain the folks
in the medical schools and we're going
to have to keep cancer patients from
running off doing all this kind of crazy
stuff that doesn't have scientific uh
validity so I our work is one of the few
where we absolutely go from the bed to
the bedside so when I see something that
I I see in our pre-clinical system I
immediately tell my friend the folks my
friends in the Oncology Clinic you might
want to combine this and that and then
they feed back and they say man this
stuff is is really good so um so that's
the way it has to work and yes uh we use
people
um some guys I mean we have to use
people to figure out what's going on and
uh you know some guy says hey man I'm
doing really well the person I'm not
doing as well okay we we can adjust his
diet and and we can adjust the drugs to
make him experience the same positive
benefit but again how you're right Logan
you're you're 100 correct I can't tell
you how many uh people have gone to
their oncology and had the door slammed
in their face or say glucose has nothing
to do with this it's just everything all
the time so that what do we call we have
to re-educate and if if and we're gonna
and believe me I'm training and we'll
work on a a comprehensive treatment
protocol right now for glioblastoma
which with a few tweaks will work for
almost all cancers but um again if you
have a protocol in your hand
how to uh manual do this do that do this
do that um and you start to see outcomes
that you would have not expected in the
positive direction then listen patients
are going to want it uh and the medical
establish are going to have to make the
change otherwise there's going to be new
Clinic set up that are going to do
exactly this yeah and so it's just a
matter of time
well I mean I've heard you say Dr C
fried I heard you say it on on Mark
Hyman and Max Luca Veer it's Dogma that
drives Physicians to adopt a model and
then stay in that path but we also have
to admit that there's a financial
benefit for writing the reimbursement
from insurance companies to these
oncologists is is impressive it's
enormous and if we know that uh only
what I think the statistic is something
like only three percent of cancers are
treated are cured with chemotherapy then
and maybe you're just saying it's the
education some aren't educated but don't
you have to admit that financial gain
has something to do with it oh yeah of
course as
um Upton Upton Sinclair said you connect
get somebody to accept what you're
saying if their salary depends on them
not accepting it it's very simple right
right
I mean it's just so um but that's you
know that's a temp I would say that's
temporary uh and that's why I think we
probably would need a hybrid system
where where we would have some we we
can't replace uh one Paradigm with
another uh
um unless there's some blending between
so people can adjust to the new Concepts
listen
as I always say the business of America
is business somebody's going to figure
out how to make a profit on metabolic
therapy uh right now that doesn't seem
to be happening my goal is not to make a
billion dollars on metabolic therapy my
goal is only to prove that it actually
works and is better than the current
system that we have I said there's
plenty of reward in just knowing that
um but uh uh I I think there will be
entrepreneurs these folks will come down
the pike at some point and and be able
to set up the kinds of clinics that
could possibly uh generate the kinds of
Revenue uh that might be uh people would
would be expand I'm not I'm not opposed
to that I'm just saying if let's do the
right thing but I but I understand Logan
uh you're not alone man I I can tell you
I I get hundreds and hundreds of emails
uh with really horrific stories uh about
the the doors shut in the face and the
the resistance to accepting this and and
it's just not just the money but money
plays a huge role but it's just the way
that the edge the Physicians are
educated in the medical schools it's the
way the National Cancer Institute
distributes their research funds
um cancer is a genetic disease according
to them and if you want to do your value
to a medical school is how much research
money you bring you have two values
number one you bring in a lot of Grants
and number two you make a lot of money
with Revenue seeing patients so it's how
are you going to generate revenue for
the medical school is either through NIH
grants
um uh or or seeing a lot of patients
um you know unless some wonderful guy
comes along and says you know here's a
hundred million dollars the Jimmy fund
and all these kinds of incredible uh
Revenue generators pink ribbon campaigns
you know all that money is largely
wasted because it goes into the same the
same Paradigm the cancer is a genetic
disease
so
um you just know it it's just like a
it's a big system a revenue generating
system and there's no accountability no
everybody seems to feel good that I'm
raising money but where where are the
where's the outcome where where where is
the uh outcome from this why don't we
see a drop in cancer why every year it's
going up the more money we raise for
cancer research the more cancer we get
and it's been going on year in and year
out and the people who who are running
and jumping and bicycling they're the
ones who benefit more than the the money
they've given to the to the schools to
do more Gene sequencing and a pdl1 and
car T immunotherapy and viruses in the
brain I mean you can't make stuff up
like this this is like nuts and all we
have to do is pull the plug on the on
the fermentable fuels you get a much
better outcome you know but that can't
be right because there's no Revenue
generation associated with it right yeah
we're a professional number of Walls
here that's okay I mean this is what I
do for a living so I teach teach
students in biology the program and
we'll educate them
go ahead Logan I know you want to ask
something I just want to know if you're
serious about if we're raising a hundred
thousand dollars you'll do a melatonin
study yeah I could for 100 000 I could
run a melatonin study absolutely and we
can publish it in a peer peer review
that's the other thing if you raise
money for a study the donors want to see
did you publish that and you can go on
to them you can go onto the web and look
at the papers that we have published and
would be very interesting look at the
funders who fund us and there's a lot of
names of individuals who have given us
money and private foundations who've
given us money and there's one there was
one a a prison from Virginia I believe a
policeman of a benevolent fund from one
of the prisons uh it gave us gave us
money and we acknowledge them so uh um
we acknowledge those who fund our work
okay and and uh and I I say Travis
christopherson's Foundation has been
instrumental in allowing us to do the
kinds of experiments uh uh that we can
do you're interested in melatonin I'd be
happy to run a melatonin test but as I
said it's a hundred thousand dollars why
is it cost so much money because we have
to pay for all these mouse cages we have
to pay the animal fees and we have to
pay the people in the my people my
professional scientists we work with
each Mouse as if it were a patient okay
we put put them in a separate cage we
monitor everything they're doing all of
this and we have big groups and after we
finish the study we do it all over again
to see whether the first time we did it
the second time we get the same results
and after we do that we do it all over
again because we want to be 100 sure
that we don't want to be saying anything
that's not true and another lab says
well I didn't get the same results well
if you do what we do and we did it over
and over again that's why it costs so
much money and it takes a couple of
years it doesn't like oh we got to run
this thing real quick it takes it takes
a couple sometimes three years to run a
comprehensive study on a particular on a
particular compound so it's not it's not
cheap and it's hard to do and but we can
do it I mean there's no question about
it a hundred thousand dollars well they
just deposited 100 million dollars down
to the the Dana-Farber thing down there
and all the and all the money they're
getting and uh our our studies are
dropping the bucket compared to and
there's no and there's no um
accountability for all the money they
get down I don't know what they're doing
now right you know so um well you talked
um earlier about autophagy and those of
us in the intermittent fasting space you
know that's something Dr Fung talks
about I don't know do you know is there
a targeted time that we all for sure
reach the place where our cells
um eliminate the sick cells and we
eliminate them through waste is that
about our 20 of the fast what do you
think oh yeah I think that has to be
where do you know age the state of the
person uh at the time they begin it okay
uh the age of the person or all of this
makes a a lot of difference okay so
older folks obviously are much more uh
they don't uh fall into these into these
states as fast as younger folks I mean
it's just the way it is oh you know so
okay it's not again it's not one shoe
fits all
um when we do mouse studies obviously
all the animals are matched for sex and
age and weight and uh you know so
there's like a a very very uh uh similar
similar individuals and that's another
thing when we start our experiments
um we we have to make sure every uh all
of the groups have to be absolutely
matched for sex and weight and age age
sex and weight so we have very so we can
parse out real differences when we see
them because if you don't do that you
don't know if it was because you started
with different body weights the mice
were different ages and different Sexes
and even in and that's another thing in
human sex plays a huge role women and
men uh do not respond exactly the same
to water only fasting uh women women can
seem to get higher Ketone levels than
men and I think that um uh has to do
with the storage of body fat in women's
body for for child rearing and so we
have to look at sex differences and all
of these things have to be accounted for
uh when we do these kinds of experiments
so just to let you know the details if
you ever read our papers in real detail
you'll see all of the different
experimental designs that we use and all
the details in setting up uh compare our
groups before we start the experiment
sometimes we have to discuss an
experiment for several several weeks
before we initiate the experiment just
to make sure we've covered all the bases
we've looked at all the different things
is like you don't want to send the
rocket into space without making sure
everything is right because then if
something goes wrong you've wasted a lot
of time and and money on this whole
thing so you really we have big group
meetings we talk about the strategy how
many animals in a group what's our
strategy how are we going to do this and
then we get the results we analyze it
and then we make then we do it again if
we adjust it here and there and
um we'll eventually come to the a firm
clear understanding as to whether a
particular compound is therapeutic has
therapeutic benefit or not and and you
know some people let me let me also say
that in some of our experiments people
have funded us for various things and
the results did not come out uh the way
uh they had a preconceived notion about
some drug from a company that says oh
this is a I'll test it it doesn't do
anything I'm sorry well they get all
Angry you know it's almost like uh they
thought they they had this map really
good drug and it was is going to do this
and that and I test it and I said oh I'm
sorry it didn't do that and then they
get angry at you they say what number do
you would you like me to change sorry
you know because I I don't really have I
don't care I just want to see what works
and what doesn't work you know and if
something works like what we're showing
now you read that paper that we just put
out on the childhood glioma uh where we
use diet and two drugs together at works
and I'd be I would say that when you
when you if you did that in the
pediatric oncology Clinic it's going to
work if you do it the right way and
these little kids are going to have a
much better uh opportunity to survive
why is it not being done cancer is a
genetic disease not a metabolic disease
yeah right we've got to change that Dr C
free we'll wrap things up but please
tell me you never plan on retiring
because we need your brain we need your
Vigor enthusiasm and your ability to get
stuff done yeah well thank you I no I
don't plan to retire anytime soon
um I want to make sure that what we're
that we're doing I want to see people
alive uh uh Beyond expectations like
Pablo Kelly and and Maggie Jones and all
these others and Maggie's collecting all
these folks I I can't believe we we
we're starting to find all these
so-called dead what they say terminal
cancer right there they're all walking
around look pretty healthy to me I don't
know who's I mean I made the whole
terminal into those people you know
I know you know yeah that she has an
incredible I interviewed her yesterday
we're gonna air it um uh after we air
this interview because they have a big
cancer Symposium uh Logan I was gonna
send you the information about but
they're documentarians and they're
they're doing film and um a series on
people who have all been told stage four
uh metastasized or a cancer metastasis
and how they've turned it around yeah
they're thriving that's what they say
they're thriving yeah that's that's the
bet that's the bottom line you're you're
you're you're alive and doing well your
quality of life is good that's right and
your quality of life is good yeah that's
it it's almost criminal what we do with
the quality of life with cancer patients
but that's a whole other hour talk Dr
Seyfried thank you so much for doing
this today uh I I know your time is
valuable we're just small peons in
Arkansas but I tell you we have big
mouths Logan has a huge influence
because of his story and I've been
running my mouth for a hundred years
here so people listen to me thank you
okay well great thank you very much
thanks for listening to the Lisa Fisher
said podcast be sure to hit subscribe
and download all the episodes and leave
a review won't you the Lisa Fisher said
podcast is produced by
clantoncreative.com
[Music]